# Dynamic-Clock
Css Analog and Digital Clocks

-Dedication:
<3 For the best-est most amazing step-daughter in the entire world! I love you to the moon and back, forever! <3

- Description:
This script allows for the dynamic generation of fully rendered Analog and Digital clocks. In addition to showing the current time, they have an 
option to show a random time. The random clock functionalty and, indeed the entire reason why I made this script, was to be used as a teaching tool
for children who are learning to read an analog clock. ( The additional functionality was added later as an oppotunity to expand upon my own programing skills).  

- Useage:
Both forms of the clock functionality ( Analog and Digital ) are part of the same "Clock" class; as such, it requires instantiation. 
Once a new Clock() has been intantiated, it will also require initalization to render some of it's elements. After the initalization, 
the instance will follow it's default behavior ( continually updating to reflect the current time every 100 milliseconds and automatically resizing ).
Beyond that, there are external methods which can be called to modify various behavior of the clock. 

- Instantiation Parameters:
The constructor of the Clock class has 3 parameters for instantiation. Each of the parameters are individually optional, but in order for the instance
to be of any use, at least one of the first two parameters will require an argument to be passed to it. These first two parameters are existing HTML 
elements which then become targets/hosts for their respective clock view and all of it's HTML / CSS sub-components. Generally these will be <div> tags 
though it is conceivably possible that other HTML Elements could be used as well. If you include values for both an Analog and a Digital HTML targets,
then the seperate faces will be internally linked; thus any method called on the instance will affect them both.  

	!! To pass an HTML element as a parameter, you will need to either use document.getElementById, document.querySelector() or a similar DOM function.

	The instantiation parameters are: ( HTML_ANALOG_TARGET , DIGITAL_HTML_TARGET , OPTIONS_OBJECT )


	-- The HTML_ANALOG_TARGET parameters takes an HTML Element Object from which the analog clock's face is then rendered:
			
		--- All of the face's displayed parts are either generated by Css or dynamically appended via the initalization method; the target element does
		not need any classes or sub-elements or any specific id to be assigned to it.
		
		--- Currently the physical sizing of the Analog view is dependant upon the WIDTH of the TARGET ELEMENT's PARENT element. 
			+ Additional sizing can probably be tweaked via the clock.css stylesheet, but I haven't tinkered with it enough to document it.
		
		--- If you do not want to have an analog clock display, pass null as this parameter's argument during instantiation. 
	
	
	-- The DIGITAL_HTML_TARGET parameters takes an HTML Element Object inside of which the Digital display is rendered.
		
		--- Currently the physical sizing of the digital view is constrained to the inside of its HTML element.
		
		--- If you do not want to have a digital clock display and do not plan on passing any options to the constructor, you can omit this argument 
		entirely. Otherwise, pass null as this parameter's argument during instantiation.
		
	-- The OPTIONS_OBJECT takes in an object which tweaks some of the starting settings for the clock. This may be omited entirely or you can include as
	few attributes/value pairs as you would like.
		
		--- The possible attributes for this object (and their default valuses) are:
				
				}
				only_4: false, 
				inject_dots: true, 
				number_replace: false, 
				alternateArray : null,
				number_radius: 0.9,
				starting_clock_status: {
					mode: "realTime",
					running: true,
					update_speed: 100
				}
			
			+ The ONLY_4 attribute takes a boolean as a value. 
				++This attribute is cosmetic stylization option. When true, only the numbers 12, 3, 6, and 9 are displayed on the clock face. When false, all 
				tweleve numbers are displayed on the clock face.
				
				!! The ONLY_4 attribute is incompatable with the ALTERNATEARRAY attribute as it will be overidden.
				
			+ The INJECT_DOTS attribute takes a boolean as a value. 
				++ This attribute is cosmetic stylization option. When true, periods (.) are injected half-way between each number on the clock (with the default
				font, they are square, though changing the font could result 	in different appearances). When false, the dots are excluded from the clock face. 
					+++ The purpose of this setting is to make up for the lack of lines between the numbers which some clocks have.
				
				!! The INJECT_DOTS attribute can be used in conjuction with ONLY_4, NUMBER_REPLACE or ALTERNATEARRAY attributes.
				
			+ The NUMBER_REPLACE attribute takes a boolean as a value. 
				++ This attribute is cosmetic stylization option. When true, the numbers on the clock face are replaced by asterisks (*) When false, all tweleve 
				numbers are displayed on the clock face are displayed normally.
					+++ The purpose of this option is to allow for an alterate and minimalistic look for the clock.
				
				!! The NUMBER_REPLACE attribute can be used in conjuction with ONLY_4 (to get a very minimalistic look ) as well as INJECT_DOTS, but is overidden 
				if the ALTERNATEARRAY attribute is used.
								
			The ALTERNATEARRAY attribute takes in an array as a value. 
				-- The array itself accepts numbers or strings and can even take in escaped sequences ( such as unicode, hex, octal, etc. ) to include special 
				characters such as the copyright symbol or even emojis.
				
				ex: "\u263A" would be the :relaxed: emoji.
				
			The NUMBER_RADIUS attribute takes in a number ( does not need to be an integer) as a value. 
				-- The value is a multiplier which corresponds to the distance which the clock face's numbers should be placed in relation to the center of face.
					--- The actual distance at which the numbers are placed is derived from using half of the clock's shortest side ( height or width ) as a radius
					and then multiplying it by the NUMBER_RADIUS value. 
					
					!! As such, the numbers should scale with the clock when if it is resized. 
					
						!!! The UMBER_RADIUS will accept values that are greater than 1 or less than 0, but that will result in odd placement of the face numbers.
			
			
	
			The STARTING_CLOCK_STATUS attribute takes in an object which has several of it's own attribute/value pairs.
				-- The STARTING_CLOCK_STATUS determines some things about how the clock behaves when it starts.
			
				> The MODE sub-attribute takes in a string as a value.
					!! Currently "Realtime" is the only acceptable value for The MODE sub-attribute. Eventually, I may add stopwatch functionality.
					
				> The RUNNING sub attribute takes in a boolean as it's value.
					>> When set to true, the clock will update continually as part of a reoccuring interval. When false, the clock is paused.
					
					!! This value can be also be toggled by the pauseStart() method and will be set to false if the randomize() method is called. 
					
				> The UPDATE_SPEED sub attribute takes an integer as it's argument.
					>> This determines the number of milliseconds between each time the clock is updated. 
						>>> If this exceeds 1000, the clock will seem very jerky; 
						>>> Most processors will be unable to accomodate anything less than 50 and cycles will be delayed.
					
					
					

			




		